
6. Section 7 concludes.
2D a t a
We use two datasets provided by the German Federal Employment Agency (BA): i) the
Establishment History Panel (BHP) and ii) the longitudinal version of the Linked Employer-
Employee Dataset (LIAB).
The BHP is a panel containing a 50% random sample of all establishments in Germany with
at least one employee liable to social security on June 30th of a given year. The data are
based on social security ﬁlings and exclude government employees and the self-employed.
Each establishment in the BHP is a company’s unit operating in a distinct county and
industry.8 For simplicity, we will refer to these units as “ﬁrms” . For each ﬁrm-year pair, the
dataset contains information on location, average wages, number of employees, and employee
characteristics (education, age, gender).
The LIAB data contain records for more than 1.9 million individuals drawn from the In-
tegrated Employment Biographies (IEB) of the IAB, which cover all individuals that were
7See Combes et al. (2008) ; Roca and Puga (2017) ; Hicks et al. (2017) ; Lagakos et al. (2020) ; and Card
et al. (2023) .
8Since several plants of the same company may operate in the same county and industry, the establish-
ments in the BHP do not always correspond to plants ( Hethey-Maier and Schmieder (2013) ).
6
--- Page 8 ---
employed subject to social security or received social security beneﬁts. These data are linked
to information about the ﬁrms at which these individuals work from the BHP. For each
individual, the data provide the entire employment history for the period 1993-2014, includ-
ing unemployment periods as long as the individual received unemployment beneﬁts. Each
observation is an employment or unemployment spell, with exact beginning and end dates
within a given year. 9 A new spell is recorded each time an individual’s employment status
changes, for example due to a change in job, wage, or employment status. For individuals
that do not change employment status, one spell is recorded for the entire year.
An important variable for our analysis is each worker’s county of residence, reported in the